---
layout: post
title : Services
author: Mégane Vilain
category: Kubernetes
---

In Kubernetes, a Service is an abstraction which defines a logical set of Pods and a policy by which to access them.
The set of Pods targeted by a Service is usually determined by a selector (label). 
A Service in Kubernetes is a REST object, similar to a Pod. Like all of the REST objects, you can POST a Service definition to the API server to create a new instance. 

For example, suppose you have a set of Pods where each listens on TCP port 9376 and contains a label **app.kubernetes.io/name=MyApp:**

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: my-service
spec:
  selector:
    app.kubernetes.io/name: MyApp
  ports:
    - protocol: TCP
      port: 80
      targetPort: 9376

```

## ServiceTypes


Type values and their behaviors are:

-    **ClusterIP** (default): 

Exposes the Service on a cluster-internal IP. Choosing this value makes the Service only reachable from within the cluster.

-    **NodePort**: 

Exposes the Service on each Node's IP at a static port (the NodePort). To make the node port available, Kubernetes sets up a cluster IP address, the same as if you had requested a Service of type: ClusterIP.
Using a **NodePort** gives you the freedom to set up your own load balancing solution, to configure environments that are not fully supported by k8s, or even to expose one or more nodes' Ip addresses directly.

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: my-service
spec:
  type: NodePort
  selector:
    app.kubernetes.io/name: MyApp
  ports:
      # By default and for convenience, the `targetPort` is set to the same value as the `port` field.
    - port: 80
      targetPort: 80
      # Optional field
      # By default and for convenience, the Kubernetes control plane will allocate a port from a range (default: 30000-32767)
      nodePort: 30007
 ```     

-    **LoadBalancer**: 

Exposes the Service externally using a cloud provider's load balancer.

-    **ExternalName**:

 Maps the Service to the contents of the externalName field (e.g. foo.bar.example.com), by returning a CNAME record with its value. No proxying of any kind is set up.

 ```yaml
 apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: my-service
  namespace: prod
spec:
  type: ExternalName
  externalName: my.database.example.com
```

