---
layout: post
title : UV
author: Mégane Vilain
category:  Programming
subcategory: Python
---

Uv is a high speed package written in rust and project manager for python.
Capable of creating virutal environnements, managing dependancies and handling multiple python versions.

# Project management

```bash
uv create project
```

Create a folder with this content

The .python-version file contains the default Python version for the current project. This file tells uv which Python version to use when creating a dedicated virtual environment for the project. 


```
project/
│
├── .git/
│
├── .gitignore
├── .python-version
├── README.md
├── main.py
└── pyproject.toml
```

It's possible to create a project from an existing folder with the following command

```bash
uv init 
```

# Running scripts

You can run a script with the following command

```bash 
uv run main.py
``` 

The first time the command is run, uv will create the appropriate virtual environnement. 
But it will not download the required modules. This need to be done before running the project.

# Dependencies

## Main dependencies

```bash
uv add <package_name>
```
Install the library and updates the the dependencies list in the **pyproject.toml**

**Note**: If you’re working on an existing project and want to migrate from a requirements.txt file to using uv, then you can run the following command:

```bash 
uv add -r requirements.txt
```

|Command|Description|
|---|---|
|uv add --upgrade <package_name>|Upgrade the package|
|uv remove <package_name>|Uninstall the package|

## Dev dependencies

In most development environments, you’ll have dependencies that aren’t required for running the code but are vital for developing it. For example, testing libraries like pytest, code formatters like Ruff, and static type checkers like mypy might be some of these development dependencies.

```bash 
uv add --dev pytest
```